Okay I got a little code review of a
Spring Boot example using ActiveMQ. It
actually uses ActiveMQ and MySQL so a
pretty simple example that I have here.
Now all the source code for this
example is going to be available up on
GitHub in my little section of GitHub if
you go to
github/springframeworkguru
and the repository name is spring-boot-active-mq-example and you can
see that I have that right up there on
the screen. So if you go to that URL you'll
be able to access the source code for
this example. Now I do have a little
README here and I am backing this up
with MySQL database with pretty simple
product type application and we are
using the embedded
ActiveMQ broker that Spring Boot will
automatically configure for us. So I have
wired up a database schema called springboot_activemq_
example, that schema will need to exist
in your MySQL database for this example
to run or you will need to override the
example. Like in Spring Boot, you can
override any of the MySQL properties and
then what you're going to see is an
application as a basic CRUD application
I'll bring up, all these products you'd
be able to add in a product and then I'm
putting a link on the product to send a
message. We just want this interactive so
we want to send a message for a specific
product ID and what we're going to do is
send a message across ActiveMQ, we'll set
up a listener for that message to come
across and then we'll capture that
message and update that product ID
record and we'll see all this in action.
Now I'll show you an example that is running
at the end of the one. I'm going to toggle over
to IntelliJ now. So I have IntelliJ up
here and this is the main Spring Boot
class and I'm going to focus on the
messaging aspects of this. I do have
other examples from MySQL and CRUD operations so you're welcome to check
those out I'm just using Spring Boot and
Spring
Data JPA to access the database. I'm not going
to focus on that in this code review
but I'm going to focus on
ActiveMQ and how I configure it so you
can see there on line 18, I'm using anntonation to enable JMS that brings up
the JMS stuff inside a Spring Boot
and on line 21 I am using a final static
String of PRODUCT_MESSEGE_QUEUE. So this
is my queue definition now if I was
running this application in production
type environment I was going someplace
else
I probably externalize that message
queue name. But here I'm adding it in as
a static final so it doesn't change and
I didn't want to repeat myself so
there's that object-oriented
programming thing, don't repeat yourself
I didn't want to have that Spring
defined in multiple spots so that's why
I am setting it up here. We do utilize
that String in a couple of
configurations so now I do set up a
bean for a JmsListenerContainerFactory and that takes in a
ConnectionFactory and Spring Boot by
default is going to give us that
ConnectionFactory for ActiveMQ so this
is something that's going to be provided
by Spring Boot and we're just going to
set up that Container Factory using the
ConnectionFactory provided by Spring
Boot. Now let's take a look at the
ProductService implementation and he is
going to get an instance by Jms
Template injected so I'm auto wiring by
constructor to bring in another Jms
Template and down here on line 73 to 78
I am sending out a message using the Jms
Template and you can see here this
section right here, where I'm reusing
that string for the message queue name
and then I send out, basically it's just
a map message. I'm sending out a map JMS
message and I'm going to log out there then
I sent out a JMS message so this is the
service that connects into the Product
Controller. The ProductController is
going to listen on a link so I'm just
listening for a post of that Product ID
or actually any post, get or whatever
comes across that
URL with a product ID I'm going to send
out a message for this and no logic in
here as far as checking make sure I got
a valid ID or anything like that it
takes whatever ID value is sent and
choose out a JMS map message for it. So the
next piece that we are concerned about
is MessageListener.
So the MessageListener is a Spring
component and we inject in a ProductRepository to this guy and through the
JmsListener we're setting up a listener
on that queue so whenever a message gets
invoked on that queue he'll get built so
you can see I'm setting up a destination
and again here's that String for the
product queue name so again that just
could have it not to repeat yourself
that's what I'm using it there and if I
was running this on some production real
application I'd probably externalize
that to an external property and check
that differently but for this example. This is
just fine. I am bringing in the JmsContainerFactory which we defined in
the main class for the Spring Boot
application as a bean. So that bean will
get access and what this is going to do
is listen on that JMS queue and you can
see that we are going to convert to a Long
from the ID because its String value
that's coming in from the web, I will go
out to the product repository ask for an
instance of that and then we're going to
set message receive to true which it
initializes to fall so we'll set it to
true then it will implement the message
count and then we'll go back save it, use some Spring Data JPA and then I'm
logging out an info message saying that
we saved that so let's go and take a
look at this guy now I'm not going to go
through there with the rest of the stuff
I wanted to focus on the JMS here. I am
going to start him up and I am using the
ActiveMQ embedded broker and I do have a
MySQL database running locally, actually
running locally in a docker container
and we see that he has up and running
so I'm going to go and toggle back over to Chrome
and I'm going to refresh this so no
products in the database and
add in a product, simple price and
there's no validation on here so this is
real simple application. I'm just doing
this to show you that it's saved and now
we can see that message is sent, false
and message count is zero and I just
want to recap how this is going to work
in this. So if I come back to the
controller
probably controller when I hit that link
to send a message all he does is sends
out the message to the queue and then
redirect back to the show page so
nothing too extraordinary here but what
we're going to see is a message is going
to get sent and it's going to happen
asynchronously. So message is sent and
then we immediately return but control
back to the controller and we display
the product page and the processing in
that message is going to happen in the
background and so we get on queue, get
pulled off the queue and then process so
what happens, I'll show you this here in
just a second, is we're going to send out
a message and these values aren't going
to change until we refresh. So I'm going
to go ahead and send that and now it's
already come back and we see this is
false and this is zero. Now if I come
back here and refresh it you can see
that those have changed to true in one
so I can send a couple more here I'm
just clicking on it randomly and I did
hit that multiple times send multiple
messages you can see that I only have
two messages here but if I do a refresh
you can see that the messages are like
just slightly behind. So we can see how
that's an achromatic in that we have
that little bit of a lag there and that
concludes everything that I wanted to
show you as far as how to send out a JMS
message, put it on the queue we set up an
automatic listener and then we're
updating the database for a specific
product ID and this is a quick reminder
if you want the source code for this,
it's out on GitHub at
/springframeworkguru/spring-boot-active-mq-example you can get the
source code and play with this and send
out some JMS messages.